Software is the collection of the programs and a program is the collection of an instructions given to the computer.

Programming languages : 
1.Low level languages :
1.1:Machine level language : computer can only understand only digital signals which are binary 0s and 1s.
Computer can only understand the machine level language.
It’s difficult to write a program for the programmers.
1.2:Assembly level language : the assembly language is the made easy to write programmer by some
 instructions its called as the modified form of the machine code.in assembly language the words are given in english 
Language such as MOV ADD SUB. Then it is easy to write and understand a program by the these words.
Since the computer understand only the machine code, then assembly code must be translated to the machine code
For this purpose the translator called “ASSEMBLER” is used.

2.High level languages :
High level languages are designed keeping in mind the features of portability. Easily write and understand because it is in the 
English language.
While programming the high level languages the programmer is not concerned with the low level details.
Here also the translators are required to understand by the machine. Here we use translators as compiler or interpreter to cover this
High level code to the machine code indirectly.

Translators :
Computer can only understand the machine level language which is binary 0 & 1.
For converting the high level language to low level ( machine level) converting purpose only the translators are used.
These are just computer programs.
Here the 3 types of translators :
1.compiler
2.assembler
3.interpreter

The compiler and interpreter are used to convert the code of high level language into machine code which is known as object program.
1.A compiler search the all the code if it is error free then only it will proceeds to the compilation process otherwise not.
Where as 
3.interpreter checks the error statement by statement if it is error free then it converts the statement to the machine level code.

COMPILATION & EXECUTION OF THE C PROGRAM : 
1.PREPROCESSOR 
2.COMPILOR
3.ASSEMBLER
4.LINKER

1.the source code is created using any of the text editor.
Then this code is in the format or in the extension of .c
This source code is passed to the preprocessor ,the preprocessor will removes the command from the source code only actual 
Program only remains.
Then links the macros.

2.then the code is passed to the compiler, here in the compiler it is converted to high level language of source code converted into
assembly language.
3.assembler is the one who translates the assembly code to the machine code which in the extension of the .obj file means object file.
4.linker links or combines the object code of the library function with object code of our program.
The output of the linker is the executable file. 
